all this comes as Kata confirms this
morning that Hamas and Israel have
agreed on a humanitarian pause in Gaza
after weeks of negotiations mediated
alongside us and Egypt the Israeli
government approved the deal after a
lengthy cabinet meeting and deep
internal divisions amongst ministers for
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu says
agreement does not mean that the war
will stop now as part of the deal 50
women and children captives held in G
will be released in exchange for some
Palestinian women and children who will
be freed from Israeli prisons the
humanitarian pors will also allow the
entry of a large number of Aid convoys
including fuel for humanitarian
needs well we have correspondents across
the region covering the story Osama bin
Javed is standing by in Doha on the
Diplomatic efforts Sarah hirat is in
occupied East Jerusalem on the political
divisions in Israel and we have John
Hendrick in Washington with us reaction
let's first cross to Tarak Abu AUM who
is in Gaza T so I want to start with the
strikes that have continued not just
overnight but in the last few
hours yes uh the Israeli strikes had
intensified during the last couple of
hours across the Gaza Strip including
the North and even the South the
southern areas of the besieged uh
territory from the uh south of the Gaza
Strip in particular in a noat refugee
camp where a residential building has
been completely destroyed by the
occupation forces claiming the lives of
around nine Palestinian till this very
moment as the occupa as the occupation
forces had also targeted several areas
across the territory including in the
north of the Gaza Strip where the
vicinity of Kamal adwan Hospital in the
north of Gaza Strip had been widely
attacked by the Israeli uh forces uh the
also confrontations on the ground
between Palestinian Fighters and the
Israeli occupation forces continued in
different aess where the air strikes had
been intensified targeting an ambulance
vehicle while it was evacuating victims
from the north of the territory where
also a civil defense crew had been
attacked throughout an Israeli Shilling
uh during the last couple of hours these
air strikes came as the as both parts we
talking about Hamas and the Israeli side
had reach a a ceasefire agreement as
they have clearly announced earlier
which also gives us a clear indication
that the rates of the Israeli strikes
today might intensify before the arrival
of this agreement to be healed between
both sides and T what reaction has there
been on the ground to this temporary
ceasefire presumably humanitarian relief
can't come soon
enough yes uh after the announcement by
different officials belong to Hamas
political Buu and with the statement of
of the of the cat for Ministry related
to the arrival to heal short-term
ceasefire between Hamas and the Israeli
occupation uh that will be conducted and
carried out over 4 days in which uh the
uh Palestinian fighters from the Gaza
Strip will will release 50 hostages from
the Israeli captives including young
children and women and in return Israel
will release a number of uh Palestinian
detes in the uh uh occupation jails
including young children and women over
four days this shortterm uh ceasefire
gives a hope for Palestinians related to
the end of this war as Israel also will
allow to the flow of humanitarian Aid
and fuel to uh the Gaza Strip meanwhile
people here in the territory were
witnessing very dire situation and
circumstances over the last couple of uh
weeks of fighting between Israel and
Hamas and in fact a kind of ceasefire
will give a glim a glimmer of hope for
Palestinians that uh this war will end
as they want to go back again to the
houses in order to check the lands and
even to uh uh pull the uh victims from
under the rles across the Gaza STP okay
tar Abu AUM there for us in Khan yunes
let's speak now to Osama bin jav he is
in Doha uh Osama cat are of course
critical in bringing about this deal uh
what are the details that you are
hearing about the contents of this
deal well it is the biggest diplomatic
development that we've seen in the last
47 days of this Relentless bombardment
that we've seen on Gaza you've heard
from Hamas spider saying that they are
going to abide by this agreement as long
as there is going to be a a mutual uh
respect of this agreement they're saying
that they've heard the statement uh from
Benjamin Netanyahu saying this does not
mean that the war is going to end and
they are going to have their uh fingers
on the trigger so to speak as well uh if
there are any violations but in these 4
day truths uh guns are supposed to fall
silent there should be no more arrests
people should be allowed to move from
the northern part of Gaza towards the
South uh to using salahadin Street uh
freely uh It also says that there are
going to be 50 captives that they are
going to release in exchange for 150
women and children and Hamas has made it
clear that this is uh civilian captives
that they are talking about releasing it
does not include any soldiers and also
the the people who are going to be
released by Israel are going to be women
and children worth noting that there are
thousands and thousands of Palestinians
who remain languishing in Israeli jails
and there more who've been picked up in
the last 47 days as well so this deal
will also include a session of
monitoring using drones and other uh
aerial vehicles that Israel deploys in
Gaza it will mean according to Hamas
that there will be no more uh spying uh
or satellite observing uh in in the
southern part and there's going to be a
cation
for a few hours at least in the Northern
parts of Gaza as well and then obviously
there is going to be no arrests and and
fighting as well but again this has all
come from Hamas so far we've not heard a
lot of details from the Israeli side and
it's let's it's going to be uh 24 hours
before this uh prisoner exchange takes
place that they're going to announce the
names and the Israeli site is going to
announce the names of the people it's
going to release as well and uh Osama
talk us through some of the diplomacy
that's been involved in making this deal
happen I mean it's not something that's
come about overnight it's taken weeks
and weeks of intense
negotiating absolutely it's been a
roller coaster as one Diplomat put it to
us uh of coming close to a deal and
going away from it and it has to be said
that qat has been pivotal in trying to
make sure that this deal happens what is
what the k side has been saying that yes
it welcomes uh the development of uh
this president exchange and a cessation
of hostilities but what is more
significant is the allowing in of Aid uh
that hundreds of trucks of Aid are going
to be allowed through as it's been
sending and other countries have been
sending Aid towards the Rafa Crossing in
Egypt and that is where all the aid is
going to come from as well uh so a major
diplomatic breakthrough Qatar has also
thanked the United States for exerting
its influence on Israel and the
Egyptians to for being part of this deal
but again uh early days we're still
waiting to hear the the basics and as
it's going to come into action it is
going to announced the timings of that
particular truth AMA Ben ja there for us
in Doha let's speak now to Sarah kyat
who is in occupied East Jerusalem so the
it in intense negotiation overnight uh
we didn't hear from the cabinet Israeli
cabinet till the early morning there was
some opposition talk us through how the
vote finally came through
yeah it started uh later on in the night
and it took more than six hours not just
for the vote but debating uh because you
had many members of those cabinets of
the cabinet uh that was against this
deal right from the start you had uh the
uh national security minister itamar
benav as well as the finance uh Minister
B at smotrich who have been dead against
it they said that all of this time
they've been warning uh uh Israel
against any kind of not just
negotiations but before this clamping
down on uh Palestinians and uh they said
that this uh could allow uh more
prisoners to be release prisoners they
said that should uh actually be
receiving the death penalty because that
is what uh itar Ben gav has been pushing
for in the last uh few months so a lot
of political wrangling but interestingly
uh smotrich the fin Minister he changed
his mind his party changed their mind
initially they went in saying absolutely
this will not go through we will vote
against it and then they voted for it
saying that they realized having debated
it that it was in the National interest
for Israel and to ensure uh the return
of those held hostage which is not just
uh the only goal the war isn't just the
only goal against Hamas but also those
captives in the last uh couple of hours
we've also been hearing from uh the
Justice minister minist rather which has
released a list of prisoners uh the name
of those that will be released 300
interestingly because 150 we know will
be released in exchange for those 50
captives but this could elude the reason
why they're releasing these names uh
being 300 so double is that if Hamas
releases 10 more captives They will
receive an extension uh in terms of PA
of fighting more than those four days
and as well the release of more
prisoners so in a way this is a a push
from Israel to encourage Hamas to do so
very interesting Sara and you mentioned
the families of those captives of course
this news must bring some relief uh has
there been much reaction from
them huge relief in in some ways only in
the perspective that they feel that
their pressure on the government
potentially has helped uh towards these
negotiations they said that they've been
left out of the dark but their marches
and their protest and being very vocal
about it also on Israeli media they
think may have had something to do with
this but there's real worry because
Hamas will only be releasing the names
of those that will be released the day
before so uh the families will be
waiting to find out if their uh members
are being released and of course that's
a big big concern the other concern for
them is that some of those being held
are not just by Hamas but also Islamic
Jihad and in in a few weeks ago some of
them had said said that they didn't know
where all those those that are held
captive were so again uh this is going
to be a very nerve-wracking time for the
families as some of them I'm sure will
find out that th their loved ones won't
be released just yet thank you for that
Sarah kyat there for us an occupied East
Jerusalem we can turn now to John
hendren to get the view from the United
States John so I wonder how significant
you think it is that we did get a
statement from the United States from
President Biden but that only came after
the qataris had released a
statement that's right the US uh
Administration official actually spoke
to reporters before that announcement
was made by Qatar but it was embargoed
for reporting we weren't allowed to say
anything about it until the Qatari
announcement was made and that's because
the US was grateful for qatar's role
that is Qatar can do something that the
us simply can't do and that is talk
directly to Hamas and that's what they
needed to happen and uh the Biden
Administration is grateful that
something has happened that there has
been some progress on this not just
because there are three Americans among
those uh 50 plus to be released one of
them is a three-year-old named Abigail
whose birthday is on Friday but the
Biden Administration really uh wants
something to happen on this because
Biden's popularity is really tanked in
polls across the us there was widespread
support for Israel initially after the
October 7th attacks but that has waned
and most of the protests you've seen
across the US are pro Palestinian lately
there are on both sides but there are
some huge Pro Palestinian protests and
polls have shown that Biden has really
taken a hit that he's actually gone from
being ahead of his presumed rival Donald
Trump the Republican in the 2024
presidential election to being behind
him not that that has necessarily driven
it but we've seen statements across the
Biden Administration praising this move
they're clearly grateful okay thank you
for that John hendin there for us in
Washington DC